W-11786862-batchRef-duke (#2345)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime: modules/ROOT/pages/batch-reference.adoc

[[ref_batch_job_component]]
== Batch Job Component (<batch:job />)

This component prepares its input for processing and outputs a report with results of that processing. Preparation takes place during the xref:batch-processing-concept.adoc#load-and-dispatch[Load and Dispatch] phase of a batch job instance, and the report is available in the xref:batch-processing-concept.adoc#on-complete[On Complete] phase.

In Studio, you can set these properties in the component's <<ref_batch_job_general_fields, General>> and <<ref_batch_job_history_fields, History>> tabs.

[[ref_batch_job_general_fields]]
=== Batch Job Properties

The Batch Job component provides a number of configurable properties that determine how batch processing takes place. It also provides a way of storing the input payload in target variable for use by subsequent components in the flow, which can be useful because the Batch Job component consumes the message payload.

Anypoint Studio provides the following fields in its *General* tab:

image::batch-job-fields-studio.png[alt=Batch Job fields in Studio,width=500px]

> The following table describes each field and includes the XML element for the field.

Author: ```suggestion
The following table describes each field and includes the XML attribute for the field.
```

| Scheduling Strategy | `schedulingStrategy` | When a Batch Job component triggers repeatedly, more than one batch job instance can be ready to execute at the same time. The instances can run sequentially based on their creation timestamp (the default) or according to a round-robin algorithm that attempts to maximize the use of available resources. This setting is appropriate only for jobs that have no side effects or dependencies on other records because the order of processing is not guaranteed.

* `ORDERED_SQUENTIAL` (default): With this setting, batch job instances execute one at a time in the order established by their creation timestamp. An instance created earlier executes before an instance created at a later time and date.
* `ROUND_ROBIN`: With this setting, all batch job instances execute based on a round-robin algorithm that assigns available resources. Order of execution is not predetermined. Batch instances can execute in any order. This option is viable only if you are certain that no execution of an instance is capable of producing a side effect on an execution of another instance. Best practices:

> ** Do not use this option for data synchronization jobs because `ROUND_ROBIN` does not guarantee any specific order of execution. This guidance avoids the chance of updates to the same record in concurrently running batch job instances. Using this setting when synchronizing data makes it possible to return a result with an earlier, incorrect version of the data.

Author: ```suggestion

** Do not use this option for data synchronization jobs because `ROUND_ROBIN` does not guarantee any specific order of execution. This guidance avoids the chance of updates to the same record in concurrently running batch job instances. Using this setting when synchronizing data makes it possible to return a result with an earlier, incorrect version of the data.
```

----

The XML example is edited to focus on settings in the batch history fields.

[[ref_batch_step_component]]
== Batch Step Component (<batch:step/>)

The Batch Step component runs during the xref:batch-processing-concept.adoc#process[Process phase] of a batch job instance, not during the Load and Dispatch or On Complete phases.

A minimum of one per Batch Job component is required within a Batch Job component. In addition to changing the name Batch Step component, you can configure _filters_ that determine which records the component accepts for processing within the component. Any processors that you add to the component act on records that the Batch Job component accepts.

image::batch-step-fields-studio.png[alt=Batch Step fields in Studio,width=500px]

The following table describes each field and includes the XML element for the field.

[%header, cols="1,1,3a"]
|===
| Field Name | XML | Description

| Name | `name` | Configurable name for a Batch Step component. The default is `Batch_Step` for the first Batch Step component within a Batch Job component. Subsequent steps append a unique number to the name, following the sequence `Batch_Step1`, `Batch_Step2`, and so on.

> | Accept Expression | `acceptExpression` | Optional DataWeave expression for a filter that determines whether to process a record in the component. If _both_ the `acceptExpression` _and_ the `acceptPolicy` values for a record evaluates to `true`, then the component accepts the record for processing. If not, the component skips the record, and the record becomes available to any downstream Batch Step components. Examples:

Author: ```suggestion
| Accept Expression | `acceptExpression` | Optional DataWeave expression for a filter that determines whether to process a record in the component. If _both_ the `acceptExpression` _and_ the `acceptPolicy` values for a record evaluate to `true`, then the component accepts the record for processing. If not, the component skips the record, and the record becomes available to any downstream Batch Step components. Examples:
```

* ALL: Accepts a record for processing regardless of processing successfully or failing within any preceding Batch Step component.

|===

[[ref_batch_aggregator_component]]
== Batch Aggregator Component (<batch:aggregator)

The Batch Aggregator component is an optional component that acts on an array of records. Aggregation takes place during the xref:batch-processing-concept.adoc#process[Process phase] of a batch job instance.

There is no default configuration for the Batch Aggregator component. If you use this component, you must indicate whether to stream records (`streaming`) or pull records from the queue into separate arrays of a fixed size (`size`), but not both. The settings are mutually exclusive. Random access to streamed records is not possible.

The Batch Aggregator component accepts one or more processors for the message `payload`. However, it is common to use a scope within the aggregator, such as xref:for-each-scope-concept.adoc[For Each] scope, to iterate over each record so that the child processors within the scope can act on each record individually.

> The Batch Aggregator component also provides a way preserve the MIME type of records (`preserveMimeTypes`), which is needed when accessing part of a record that you are aggregating as a fixed size (`size`), See xref:batch-filters-and-batch-aggregator.adoc#preserving-the-mime-types-of-the-aggregated-records[Preserving the MIME types of the Aggregated Records]. To learn about record processing within this component, see xref:batch-processing-concept.adoc#batch-aggregator[Batch Aggregator].

Author: ```suggestion
The Batch Aggregator component also provides a way preserve the MIME type of records (`preserveMimeTypes`), which is needed when accessing part of a record that you are aggregating as a fixed size (`size`). See xref:batch-filters-and-batch-aggregator.adoc#preserving-the-mime-types-of-the-aggregated-records[Preserving the MIME types of the Aggregated Records]. To learn about record processing within this component, see xref:batch-filters-and-batch-aggregator.adoc#batch-aggregator[Batch Aggregator].
```

image::batch-aggregator-fields-studio.png[alt=Batch Aggregator fields in Studio,width=500px]

The following table describes each field and includes the XML element for the field.

[%header, cols="1a,1a,3a"]
|===
| Field Name | XML | Description

| Display Name |  `doc:name` | Configurable name for the component. Example: `doc:name="My Aggregator"`. The default name is `Batch Aggregator`.

| Aggregator Size | `size` | Size of each array of records to process. There is no default size. The processor within the array must accept an array as input. The component continues pulling records from the batch stepping queue into arrays of the configured size until none are left. If the queue contains fewer records than the configured size, the component pulls those records into a smaller array for processing. You must set the Size (`size`) or Streaming (`streaming`) property but not both.

When using this configuration, the component does not wait for the Batch Step component to finish processing all records in an instance or batch. Once the set number of records is available in the stepping queue, the Batch Aggregator component pulls those records into an array and processes them.

> | Streaming | `streaming` | When `streaming=true`, the component acts on all records in a batch job instance and returns the results in an array of a size equal to the number of  records in the instance. The batch size setting through the Batch Job component does not limit the number of records to process or return in the array. For example, assume that the aggregator returns the numeric IDs of a small batch job instance that processes only _ten_ records of the form `{"id": 1}`, `{"id": 2}`, and so on. In this case, the output array for the instance contains ten IDs, such as `[1, 6, 2, 7, 3, 8, 4, 9, 5, 10]`, even if the `blockSize` on the Batch Job component is set to a number smaller than the number of records in the instance, such as `5`.

Author: ```suggestion
| Streaming | `streaming` | When `streaming=true`, the component acts on all records in a batch job instance and returns the results in an array of a size equal to the number of records in the instance. The batch size setting through the Batch Job component does not limit the number of records to process or return in the array. For example, assume that the aggregator returns the numeric IDs of a small batch job instance that processes only _ten_ records of the form `{"id": 1}`, `{"id": 2}`, and so on. In this case, the output array for the instance contains ten IDs, such as `[1, 6, 2, 7, 3, 8, 4, 9, 5, 10]`, even if the `blockSize` on the Batch Job component is set to a number smaller than the number of records in the instance, such as `5`.
```

There is no default. You must set the Size (`size`) or Streaming (`streaming`) property but not both.

| Preserve Mime Types | `preserveMimeTypes` | Defaults to `false`. To preserve the MIME type of records processed within this component, set this attribute to `true`.  Processors that cannot determine the MIME type of data return output, such as `null`, or unreadable references to the payload, such as `[[B@e596d5c, [B@1c4c3b32], ...]`. Setting `preserveMimeTypes=true` is useful when this component is set to process a fixed number (`size`) of records.
|===

[[streaming_tips]]
When deciding whether to stream aggregated records, consider the following:

* SaaS providers often have restrictions on accepting streaming input.

* Batch streaming is often useful in batch processing when writing to a file such as CSV, JSON, or XML.

* Batch streaming affects the performance of your application because the array of records is stored in RAM, which can slow the pace of transaction processing. Though performance slows, the trade-off of streaming data can warrant its use.

> * Steaming prevents random access to records because a streaming commit is a one-read, forward-only iterator. However, you can perform random access operations when streaming if you use a component like xref:for-each-scope-concept.adoc[For Each]. For Each a separate array of records, which is accessible through its `records` variable.

Author: ```suggestion
* Steaming prevents random access to records because a streaming commit is a one-read, forward-only iterator. However, you can perform random access operations when streaming if you use a component like xref:for-each-scope-concept.adoc[For Each]. For Each provides a separate array of records, which is accessible through its `records` variable.
```

= Batch Component Reference
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> Mule batch components are designed to manage bulk processing of records with minimal adjustments to default component settings. However, batch components are highly configurable to meet specific processing and performance requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mule batch components manage bulk processing of records with minimal adjustments to default component settings. They are highly configurable to meet specific processing and performance requirements.
```

A Batch Job component must contain at least one Batch Step component. Optionally, each Batch Step component can contain a single Batch Aggregator component. The Mule flow in the following figure shows batch components.

image::batch-flow-generic-example.png[alt=Batch Processing Components in a Mule Flow within Studio]

> The Batch Job component splits the payload of the Mule message into records. Within the Batch Step and Batch Aggregator components, these records are available with the keyword `payload`, and Mule variables are also accessible through the `vars` keyword. However, Mule attributes are not accessible from within these components. Both components return `null` on `attributes`.

Reviewer: there is some capitalization going on throughout that I'm just going to trust you know should be used 🤣

This reference assumes that you are familiar with the xref:batch-processing-concept.adoc#batch-job-processing-phases[batch processing phases] of a batch job instance.

[[ref_batch_job_component]]
== Batch Job Component (<batch:job />)

This component prepares its input for processing and outputs a report with results of that processing. Preparation takes place during the xref:batch-processing-concept.adoc#load-and-dispatch[Load and Dispatch] phase of a batch job instance, and the report is available in the xref:batch-processing-concept.adoc#on-complete[On Complete] phase.

In Studio, you can set these properties in the component's <<ref_batch_job_general_fields, General>> and <<ref_batch_job_history_fields, History>> tabs.

[[ref_batch_job_general_fields]]
=== Batch Job Properties

> The Batch Job component provides a number of configurable properties that determine how batch processing takes place. It also provides a way of storing the input payload in target variable for use by subsequent components in the flow, which can be useful because the Batch Job component consumes the message payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Batch Job component provides a number of configurable properties that determine how batch processing takes place. It also provides a way of storing the input payload in a target variable for use by subsequent components in the flow, which can be useful because the Batch Job component consumes the message payload.
```

> Anypoint Studio provides the following fields in its *General* tab:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Studio provides the following fields in the *General* tab:
```

----
INFO  ... DefaultBatchEngine:
 instance '6d85c380-f332-11ec-bb5f-147ddaaf4f97' of job 'Batch_Job_in_Mule_Flow'
 has reached the max allowed number of failed records. Record will be added to
 failed list and the instance will be removed from execution pool.
...
INFO  ... DefaultBatchEngine:
 instance 6d85c380-f332-11ec-bb5f-147ddaaf4f97 of job Batch_Job_in_Mule_Flow
 has been stopped. Instance status is FAILED_PROCESS_RECORDS
----

> Note that parallel processing within a batch job instance makes it possible for the number of errors to exceed the configured maximum because it is possible for multiple records fail at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that when parallel processing within a batch job instance, the number of errors might exceed the configured maximum if multiple records fail at the same time.
```

Author: There is always parallel processing except in one unusual case that has to be configured. So gonna leave as-is.

| Scheduling Strategy | `schedulingStrategy` | When a Batch Job component triggers repeatedly, more than one batch job instance can be ready to execute at the same time. The instances can run sequentially based on their creation timestamp (the default) or according to a round-robin algorithm that attempts to maximize the use of available resources. This setting is appropriate only for jobs that have no side effects or dependencies on other records because the order of processing is not guaranteed.

* `ORDERED_SQUENTIAL` (default): With this setting, batch job instances execute one at a time in the order established by their creation timestamp. An instance created earlier executes before an instance created at a later time and date.

> * `ROUND_ROBIN`: With this setting, all batch job instances execute based on a round-robin algorithm that assigns available resources. Order of execution is not predetermined. Batch instances can execute in any order. This option is viable only if you are certain that no execution of an instance is capable of producing a side effect on an execution of another instance. Best practices:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `ROUND_ROBIN`: With this setting, all batch job instances execute based on a round-robin algorithm that assigns available resources. Order of execution is not predetermined. Batch instances can execute in any order. This option is viable only if you are certain that no execution of an instance is capable of producing a side effect on an execution of another instance. When using this strategy, consider the following best practices:
```

Author: I like that sentence but think it's more scannable this way.

> ** Do not use this option for data synchronization jobs because `ROUND_ROBIN` does not guarantee any specific order of execution. This guidance avoids the chance of updates to the same record in concurrently running batch job instances. Using this setting when synchronizing data makes it possible to return a result with an earlier, incorrect version of the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** To avoid potential updates to the same record in concurrently running batch job instances, do not use this strategy for data synchronization jobs. Using this strategy when synchronizing data makes it possible to return a result with an earlier, incorrect version of the data.
```

** Use this strategy to parallelize execution of batch job instances if you are certain that no record depends on the processing of another record within the Batch Job component, such as a case in which your batch job retrieves only new records from a database.

> | Job Instance ID | `jobInstanceId` | Optional expression that provides a friendly, unique name for the batch instance. To make the name unique, you must use a DataWeave expression, for example, `\#[jobInstanceId="#['Job From ' ++ now() as String {format: 'dd/MM/yy hh:mm:ss'}]` within this field. If an expression returns the same value more than once, Mule throws an error with a message such as, `Batch Job 'my-batch-job-example' already has an instance with id 'my-repeated-id'`. The Batch Job component uses this value to create a new identifier each time the Mule flow reaches the Batch Job component. If you do not provide an ID, Mule automatically creates a UUID that serves as the identifier for each batch job instance.

Reviewer: can you use a word other than friendly here?

Author: done: "recognizable, unique name"

|===

//See Handling Errors During Batch Job for more information.

[[ref_batch_job_history_fields]]
=== Batch Job History (<batch:history />)

A batch job history configuration enables you to address a `No space left on device` error by adjusting the amount of time that historical data for batch job instances persist in a temporary Mule directory. This error can occur if the frequency or number of records to process is too high for the available disk space or for a CloudHub worker of a given size to handle.

By default, the history of batch job instances persists for 7 days. A monitoring process automatically removes that history when the period expires.

image::batch-job-fields-history-studio.png[alt=Batch Job History fields in Studio,width=500px]

> The following table describes each field and includes the XML element for the field.

Author: ```suggestion
The following table describes each field and includes the XML attribute for the field.
```

[%header, cols="1a,1a,3a"]
|===
| Name | XML | Description

> | Max Age | `maxAge` | Maximum age of job instances before they expire, for example: `expiration maxAge="10"`. Default: `maxAge=7`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Max Age | `maxAge` | Maximum age of job instances before they expire, for example: `expiration maxAge="10"`, Default: `maxAge=7`.
```

> | Time Unit | `ageUnit` | The unit of time to apply to the `maxAge`. Valid values: `DAYS`, `HOURS`, `MILLISECONDS`, `MINUTES`, `SECONDS`. Default: `ageUnit=DAYS`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Time Unit | `ageUnit` | The unit of time to apply to the `maxAge`. Valid values: `DAYS`, `HOURS`, `MILLISECONDS`, `MINUTES`, and `SECONDS`. Default: `ageUnit=DAYS`.
```

|===

Note that these fields are attributes to the `<batch:expiration/>` element, which is embedded within `<batch:history/>`:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<batch:job ...>
  <batch:history >
    <batch:expiration maxAge="10" ageUnit="MINUTES" />
  </batch:history>
  <batch:process-records>
    <batch:step />
  </batch:process-records>
<batch:job />
----

The XML example is edited to focus on settings in the batch history fields.

[[ref_batch_step_component]]
== Batch Step Component (<batch:step/>)

The Batch Step component runs during the xref:batch-processing-concept.adoc#process[Process phase] of a batch job instance, not during the Load and Dispatch or On Complete phases.

> A minimum of one per Batch Job component is required within a Batch Job component. In addition to changing the name Batch Step component, you can configure _filters_ that determine which records the component accepts for processing within the component. Any processors that you add to the component act on records that the Batch Job component accepts.

Author: ```suggestion
A minimum of one Batch Step component is required within a Batch Job component. In addition to changing the name of a Batch Step component, you can configure _filters_ that determine which records the component accepts for processing within the component. Any processors that you add to the component act on records that the Batch Job component accepts.
```

image::batch-step-fields-studio.png[alt=Batch Step fields in Studio,width=500px]

> The following table describes each field and includes the XML element for the field.

Author: ```suggestion
The following table describes each field and includes the XML attribute for the field.
```

[%header, cols="1,1,3a"]
|===
| Field Name | XML | Description

> | Name | `name` | Configurable name for a Batch Step component. The default is `Batch_Step` for the first Batch Step component within a Batch Job component. Subsequent steps append a unique number to the name, following the sequence `Batch_Step1`, `Batch_Step2`, and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Name | `name` | Configurable name for a Batch Step component. The default is `Batch_Step` for the first Batch Step component within a Batch Job component. Subsequent steps append a unique number to the name, following the sequence, `Batch_Step1`, `Batch_Step2`, and so on.
```

> | Accept Expression | `acceptExpression` | Optional DataWeave expression for a filter that determines whether to process a record in the component. If _both_ the `acceptExpression` _and_ the `acceptPolicy` values for a record evaluate to `true`, then the component accepts the record for processing. If not, the component skips the record, and the record becomes available to any downstream Batch Step components. Examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Accept Expression | `acceptExpression` | Optional DataWeave expression for a filter that determines whether to process a record in the component. If _both_ the `acceptExpression` _and_ the `acceptPolicy` values for a record evaluate to `true`, then the component accepts the record for processing. If not, the component skips the record, and the record becomes available to any downstream Batch Step components. The following examples illustrate the `acceptExpression`:
```

Reviewer: This intro phrase might be too much, but I just don't like the fragment otherwise

Author: Gonna keep fragment to facilitate scanning a bit since it's a reference and already quite long.

* `acceptExpression="#[payload.age > 21]"` for a payload with an `age` field
* `acceptExpression="#[not isBlank(payload.name)]"` for a payload with a `name` field.

> | Accept Policy |  `acceptPolicy` | Accepts a record for processing only if the policy evaluates to `true` for that record. You can base acceptance on the success or failure of a record to process successfully in _preceding_ (upstream) Batch Step components within the Batch Job component. You can configure the component to process only records that processed successfully, only records failed to process successfully, or all records, regardless of whether they processed successfully. The default is `NO_FAILURES`. Note that the `acceptPolicy` evaluates before any `acceptExpression` on the component, and the `maxFailedRecords` setting on the <<ref_batch_job_general_fields, Batch Job component>> takes precedence over `acceptPolicy` settings.

Author: ```suggestion
| Accept Policy |  `acceptPolicy` | Accepts a record for processing only if the policy evaluates to `true` for that record. You can base acceptance on the success or failure of a record to process successfully in _preceding_ (upstream) Batch Step components within the Batch Job component. You can configure the component to process only records that processed successfully, only records that failed to process successfully, or all records, regardless of whether they processed successfully. The default is `NO_FAILURES`. Note that the `acceptPolicy` evaluates before any `acceptExpression` on the component, and the `maxFailedRecords` setting on the <<ref_batch_job_general_fields, Batch Job component>> takes precedence over `acceptPolicy` settings.
```

* `NO_FAILURES`: Default setting. Accepts a record for processing if the record never failed to process successfully within any preceding Batch Step component or if there is no upstream Batch Step component.

> * ONLY_FAILURES:  Accepts a record for processing if the record failed to process successfully within any preceding Batch Step component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `ONLY_FAILURES`:  Accepts a record for processing if the record failed to process successfully within any preceding Batch Step component.
```

> * ALL: Accepts a record for processing regardless of processing successfully or failing within any preceding Batch Step component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `ALL`: Accepts a record for processing regardless of processing successfully or failing within any preceding Batch Step component.
```

|===

[[ref_batch_aggregator_component]]

> == Batch Aggregator Component (<batch:aggregator)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Batch Aggregator Component (<batch:aggregator />)
```

Reviewer: I've never seen this usage before so I don't know if that edit is useful or not

The Batch Aggregator component also provides a way preserve the MIME type of records (`preserveMimeTypes`), which is needed when accessing part of a record that you are aggregating as a fixed size (`size`). See xref:batch-filters-and-batch-aggregator.adoc#preserving-the-mime-types-of-the-aggregated-records[Preserving the MIME types of the Aggregated Records]. To learn about record processing within this component, see xref:batch-filters-and-batch-aggregator.adoc#batch-aggregator[Batch Aggregator].

Note that some connectors, such as xref:salesforce-connector::salesforce-connector-reference.adoc#upsert[Anypoint Connector for Salesforce (Salesforce Connector)] and xref:netsuite-connector::netsuite-reference.adoc#Upsert[Anypoint Connector for NetSuite (NetSuite Connector)], provide operations that can handle record-level errors without causing the batch aggregation process to fail.

> Limitations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using Batch Aggregators, consider the following limitations:
```

There is no default. You must set the Size (`size`) or Streaming (`streaming`) property but not both.

| Preserve Mime Types | `preserveMimeTypes` | Defaults to `false`. To preserve the MIME type of records processed within this component, set this attribute to `true`.  Processors that cannot determine the MIME type of data return output, such as `null`, or unreadable references to the payload, such as `[[B@e596d5c, [B@1c4c3b32], ...]`. Setting `preserveMimeTypes=true` is useful when this component is set to process a fixed number (`size`) of records.
|===

[[streaming_tips]]
When deciding whether to stream aggregated records, consider the following:

* SaaS providers often have restrictions on accepting streaming input.

* Batch streaming is often useful in batch processing when writing to a file such as CSV, JSON, or XML.

* Batch streaming affects the performance of your application because the array of records is stored in RAM, which can slow the pace of transaction processing. Though performance slows, the trade-off of streaming data can warrant its use.

> * Steaming prevents random access to records because a streaming commit is a one-read, forward-only iterator. However, you can perform random access operations when streaming if you use a component like xref:for-each-scope-concept.adoc[For Each]. For Each provides a separate array of records, which is accessible through its `records` variable.

Author: ```suggestion
* Streaming prevents random access to records because a streaming commit is a one-read, forward-only iterator. However, you can perform random access operations when streaming if you use a component like xref:for-each-scope-concept.adoc[For Each]. For Each provides a separate array of records, which is accessible through its `records` variable.
```
```suggestion
* Steaming prevents random access to records because a streaming commit is a one-read, forward-only iterator. However, you can perform random access operations when streaming if you use a component like xref:for-each-scope-concept.adoc[For Each]. For Each provides a separate array of records, which is accessible through its `records` variable.
```

= Batch Component Reference
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

Mule batch components are designed to manage bulk processing of records with minimal adjustments to default component settings. However, batch components are highly configurable to meet specific processing and performance requirements.

A Batch Job component must contain at least one Batch Step component. Optionally, each Batch Step component can contain a single Batch Aggregator component. The Mule flow in the following figure shows batch components.

image::batch-flow-generic-example.png[alt=Batch Processing Components in a Mule Flow within Studio]

> This reference assumes that you are familiar with the xref:batch-processing-concept.adoc#batch_phases[batch processing phases] of a batch job instance.

Author: note to self: check link to batch processing phases

Author: done

////

> TODO:

Author: could be a bug, @IvanAndresFritzler  will check

Reviewer 2: Attributes are not accessible by design.

Author: done

In Studio, you can set these properties in the component's <<ref_batch_job_general_fields, General>> and <<ref_batch_job_history_fields, History>> tabs.

[[ref_batch_job_general_fields]]
=== Batch Job Properties

The Batch Job component provides a number of configurable properties that determine how batch processing takes place. It also provides a way of storing the input payload in target variable for use by subsequent components in the flow, which can be useful because the Batch Job component consumes the message payload. 

Anypoint Studio provides the following fields in its *General* tab:

image::batch-job-fields-studio.png[alt=Batch Job fields in Studio,width=500px]

The following table describes each field and includes the XML element for the field.

[%header, cols="1a,1a,3a"]
|===
| Field Name | XML | Description

| Name | `name` | Configurable name for a Batch Job component. The default name appends `Batch_Job` to the name of the application.

> | Max Failed Records | `maxFailedRecords` | Maximum number of records that can fail within a batch job instance before the execution of that instance stops. The default is `0`. Use `-1` for no limit. This setting takes precedence over any accept policy (`acceptPolicy`) or expression (`acceptExpression`) filter on a <<ref_batch_step_component, Batch Step component>> within the Batch Job component. When a batch job instance exceeds the `maxFailedRecords` value, the Batch Step component in which the failure occurs removes the failing records in that block from the execution pool, stops the batch job instance so that any remaining records in the block and instance are not processed, assigns the instance the status `FAILED_PROCESS_RECORDS`, and reports the number of failed records in the instance. When a batch job instance reaches this threshold, the console prints a message such as this one (edited for readability):

Reviewer 2: We need to modify this: "When a batch job instance exceeds the `maxFailedRecords` value, the Batch Step component in which the failure occurs removes the failing records in that block from the execution pool, stops the batch job instance so that any remaining records in the block and instance are not processed" since I think that it's not what actually happens. It's the Batch Job the one that halts the whole processing.

Author: @IvanAndresFritzler 
Just the Batch Job instance stops processing? Ivan: yes
What happens to the processed records in the instance? Ivan: everything stays at the step it was, including failing records. Can restart the processing, but we need to say more about how this persistence works.

Author: revised

 has been stopped. Instance status is FAILED_PROCESS_RECORDS
----

Note that parallel processing within a batch job instance makes it possible for the number of errors to exceed the configured maximum because it is possible for multiple records fail at the same time.

/////
MOVE TO ON COMPLETE SECTION
In such a case, a Logger configured within the *On Complete* area to print `payload as Object` identifies a number of failed records (`failedRecords`). The Batch Job component also reports the failures in the instance, such as `Failed Records: 10`, for example:

----
INFO  ... LoggerMessageProcessor:
{onCompletePhaseException=null, loadingPhaseException=null, totalRecords=10,
elapsedTimeInMillis=115, failedOnCompletePhase=false, loadedRecords=10,
failedRecords=10, failedOnInputPhase=false, successfulRecords=0,
inputPhaseException=null, processedRecords=10, failedOnLoadingPhase=false,
batchJobInstanceId=Job From 23/06/22 12:47:57}
...
INFO  ... DefaultBatchEngine:
Finished execution for instance 'b50e9970-f332-11ec-bb5f-147ddaaf4f97'
of job 'Batch_Job_in_Mule_Flow'.
Total Records processed: 10. Successful records: 0. Failed Records: 10
----
/////

> | Scheduling Strategy | `schedulingStrategy` | When a Batch Job component triggers repeatedly, more than one batch job instance can be in an executable state at the same time. This setting indicates how to share the thread pool across those instances. The instances can run sequentially based on their creation timestamp (the default) or according to a round-robin algorithm that attempts to maximize the use of available resources. This setting is appropriate only for jobs that have no side effects or dependencies on other records because the order of processing is not guaranteed.

Reviewer 2: Is this something that we are adding now or did we take it from the current version? "This setting indicates how to share the thread pool across those instances."

"more than one batch job instance can be in an executable state at the same time" ->  "more than one batch job instance can be ready to execute at the same time"

Author: re #1, removed sentence "This setting indicates how to share the thread pool across those instances." 

re #2, changed second to "more than one batch job instance can be ready to execute at the same time" as suggested

Author: however note that "This setting indicates how to share the thread pool across those instances." comes from the Studio info bubble, so would need to be modified there, if inaccurate:
<img width="788" alt="Screen Shot 2022-10-11 at 8 00 28 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10456406/195240045-ae28d526-d4b0-4f6c-b025-36a9326ab2c0.png">

Author: Top sentence comes from Studio's info bubble for the Scheduling Strategy field. It's not for the particular value of the field.

Author: <img width="788" alt="Screen Shot 2022-10-11 at 8 00 28 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10456406/195251223-17797532-82fb-4d16-bcdc-f7587121278b.png">

* `ROUND_ROBIN`: With this setting, all batch job instances execute based on a round-robin algorithm that assigns available resources. Order of execution is not predetermined. Batch instances can execute in any order. This option is viable only if you are certain that no execution of an instance is capable of producing a side effect on an execution of another instance. Best practices:
** Do not use this option for data synchronization jobs because `ROUND_ROBIN` does not guarantee any specific order of execution. This guidance avoids the chance of updates to the same record in concurrently running batch job instances. Using this setting when synchronizing data makes it possible to return a result with an earlier, incorrect version of the data.
** Use this strategy to parallelize execution of batch job instances if you are certain that no record depends on the processing of another record within the Batch Job component, such as a case in which your batch job retrieves only new records from a database.

> | Job Instance ID | `jobInstanceId` | Optional expression that provides a friendly, unique name for the batch instance. To make the name unique, you must use a DataWeave expression, for example, `\#[jobInstanceId="#['Job From ' ++ now() as String {format: 'dd/MM/yy hh:mm:ss'}]` within this field. If an expression returns the same value more than once, Mule throws the error `InitialisationException`. The Batch Job component uses this value to create a new identifier each time the Mule flow reaches the Batch Job component. If you do not provide an ID, Mule automatically creates a UUID that serves as the identifier for each batch job instance.

Reviewer 2: I must check this: "If an expression returns the same value more than once, Mule throws the error `InitialisationException`"

Author: That comes from the Studio info bubble, so we should probably fix there, too, if inaccurate. 

<img width="788" alt="Screen Shot 2022-10-11 at 7 57 49 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10456406/195239683-6d6fe735-2336-467c-9650-0dd33711d9dc.png">

Author: added story to fix in Studio

> | Batch Block Size |  `blockSize` | Number of records to process per record block. The default is `100` records per block. If fewer records are available for processing than the configured size, Mule sends a block of a smaller size to the record processors. Such a case can occur, for example, if there are 1010 records and the block size is 100 because the modulo is 10, not 0. The block size setting provides a way to tune performance, which is affected by the size of records in each block and the `maxConcurrency` setting. Blocks run in parallel, so blocks with large payloads can have an impact, as can the number of blocks that run in parallel.

Reviewer 2: "Blocks run in parallel, so blocks with large payloads can have an impact, as can the number of blocks that run in parallel." <- I think that we can remove this.

Author: removed

* `acceptExpression="#[payload.age > 21]"` for a payload with an `age` field
* `acceptExpression="#[not isBlank(payload.name)]"` for a payload with a `name` field.

[[accept_policy]]
| Accept Policy |  `acceptPolicy` | Accepts a record for processing only if the policy evaluates to `true` for that record. You can base acceptance on the success or failure of a record to process successfully in _preceding_ (upstream) Batch Step components within the Batch Job component. You can configure the component to process only records that processed successfully, only records failed to process successfully, or all records, regardless of whether they processed successfully. The default is `NO_FAILURES`. Note that the `acceptPolicy` evaluates before any `acceptExpression` on the component, and the `maxFailedRecords` setting on the <<ref_batch_job_general_fields, Batch Job component>> takes precedence over `acceptPolicy` settings.
+

> * `NO_FAILURES`: Default setting. Accepts a record for processing if the record never failed to process successfully within any preceding Batch Step component or if there is no upstream Batch Step component.

Reviewer 2: I must check the "any preceding Batch Step" part.

Author: I have a test for this.

* ONLY_FAILURES:  Accepts a record for processing if the record failed to process successfully within any preceding Batch Step component.
* ALL: Accepts a record for processing regardless of processing successfully or failing within any preceding Batch Step component.

|===

////
  // TODO: The MetaData tab, same as for other batch components.
  // POINT TO DOC ON THIS. CREATE THE DOC IF IT DOESN'T EXIST YET
  // OR IS INCOMPLETE. Would need work item for this task.
////

[[ref_batch_aggregator_component]]
== Batch Aggregator Component (<batch:aggregator)

The Batch Aggregator component is an optional component that acts on an array of records. Aggregation takes place during the xref:batch-processing-concept.adoc#phase_process[Process phase] of a batch job instance.

> There is no default configuration for the Batch Aggregator component. If you use this component, you must indicate whether to stream records (`streaming`) or pull records from the queue into separate arrays of a fixed size (`size`), but not both. The settings are mutually exclusive. _Streamed records are non-repeatable_, which means that random access to streamed records is not possible.

Reviewer 2: "_Streamed records are non-repeatable_, which means that random access to streamed records is not possible." -> "Random access when records are streamed is not possible."

Author: done

Author: done

> The Batch Aggregator component accepts a single processor for the message `payload`. A downstream sibling to that processor receives no `payload` but can gain access to the value of Mule variables, such as the ID of the batch job instance, using `vars.batchJobInstanceId`. In addition, a scope within the aggregator, such as xref:for-each-scope-concept.adoc[For Each] scope, that iterates over each record in the array can contain multiple child processors.

Reviewer 2: This is not exactly how it works, we must review this paragraph.

Author: TODO: typically want to iterate the array but you can add more than one component to the aggregator

Author: TODO

Author: done

> The Batch Aggregator component also provides a way preserve the MIME type of records (`preserveMimeTypes`), which is needed when accessing part of a record that you are aggregating as a fixed size (`size`). For details about record processing within this component, see batch-processing-concept.adoc#batch_aggregator_processing[batch aggregator processing].

Reviewer 2: I must think on an example to better explain this.

Author: TODO

Author: TODO

Author: Link to the aggregator section with the example.

Author: done

> Note that some connectors, such as xref:salesforce-connector::salesforce-connector-reference.adoc#upsert[Anypoint Connector for Salesforce (Salesforce Connector)] and xref:netsuite-connector::netsuite-reference.adoc#Upsert[Anypoint Connector for NetSuite (NetSuite Connector)], provide operations that can handle record-level errors without causing the batch aggregation process to fail.

Reviewer 2: We should give the operation names and how they work.

Author: upsert is one

others TODO

Author: Current docs refer only to upsert (from https://docs.mulesoft.com/mule-runtime/4.4/batch-filters-and-batch-aggregator#batch-aggregator-characteristics):

> > Several Anypoint Connectors can handle record-level errors without failing a whole batch aggregation (i.e., upsert).
> > At runtime, these connectors keep track of which records were successfully accepted by the target resource, and which failed to upsert. Thus, rather than failing a complete group of records, the connector upserts as many records as it can, and tracks any failures for notification. Some of these connectors are:
> Salesforce
> 
> NetSuite
> 
> To make sure that the connector you are using supports record-level errors, check the connector’s documentation

Author: See comment in edit mode.

Author: TODO: create new story to add specific operations

Author: done, also lists the other TODOs [W-11934285]

| Streaming | `streaming` | When `streaming=true`, the component acts on all records in a batch job instance and returns the results in an array of a size equal to the number of  records in the instance. The batch size setting through the Batch Job component does not limit the number of records to process or return in the array. For example, assume that the aggregator returns the numeric IDs of a small batch job instance that processes only _ten_ records of the form `{"id": 1}`, `{"id": 2}`, and so on. In this case, the output array for the instance contains ten IDs, such as `[1, 6, 2, 7, 3, 8, 4, 9, 5, 10]`, even if the `blockSize` on the Batch Job component is set to a number smaller than the number of records in the instance, such as `5`.

Processors can gain sequential access to the array of streamed records. Random access to the streamed records is not allowed because the aggregator does not preserve the processed records.

There is no default. You must set the Size (`size`) or Streaming (`streaming`) property but not both.

> | Preserve Mime Types | `preserveMimeTypes` | Defaults to `false`. To preserve the MIME type of records processed within this component, set this attribute to `true`.  Processors that cannot determine the MIME type of data return output, such as `null`, or unreadable references to the payload, such as `[[B@e596d5c, [B@1c4c3b32], ...]`. Setting `preserveMimeTypes=true` is useful when this component is set to process a fixed number (`size`) of records.

Author: if Fixed Size and selecting field in payload, then must preserve to avoid returning null

Author: also could be an issue when different records have different MIME type;
@IvanAndresFritzler  will check
